README.md, before:

[![General Assembly Logo](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/1a91b05b8f4d44b5bbfb83abac2b0996d8e26c92/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f6b6538555354712e706e67)](https://generalassemb.ly/education/web-development-immersive)

# Ruby Enumerable and Comparable

## Prerequisites

- [Ruby Object](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/ruby-object)

## Objectives

By the end of this, developers should be able to:

- Define “list” and give two examples of lists in Ruby.
- Diagram the flow of Enumerable methods as invoked through concrete classes.
- Give two examples of methods defined in Enumerable and available on all
  three of Range, Array, and Hash.
- Add Comparable operators to a class.
- Add Enumerable methods to a class.

## Preparation

1. Fork and clone this repository.
 [FAQ](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/meta/wiki/ForkAndClone)
1. Create a new branch, `training`, for your work.
1. Checkout to the `training` branch.
1. Install dependencies with `bundle install`.

## Introduction

A list is an abstract data type (ADT) that represents an ordered collection of
items. The list may be empty. If not empty, the list has a first item followed
by a list containing the rest of the items. This is not a rigorous definition.

Enumerable is Ruby's implementation of the `list` abstraction.

What are some types of lists?

What are some things we'd put on those lists?

## Arrays as lists

In JavaScript, the concept of list is built into Array. In Ruby, it is built
into Enumerable which is included in Ruby's
[Array](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Array.html).

The following table contains a mapping of some of the methods that potentially
touch all the elements in an Array. We've already covered most of these in
[Ruby Array Methods](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/ruby-array-methods).

| JavaScript | Ruby     |
| ---------- | ----     |
| `every`    | `all?`   |
| `filter`   | `select` |
| `forEach`  | `each`   |
| `map`      | `map`    |
| `reduce`   | `reduce` |
| `some`     | `any?`   |

But, wait. Where is the method `all?` defined? The method `reduce`? They're
from the `Enumerable` mix-in, and will be the focus of this talk. "Enumerable"
is another word for "iteratable", so we can say that each of Ruby's `Array`,
`Range`, and `Hash` types behave as something that can be iterated over.

## The Enumerable Module

Ruby's [Enumerable](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Enumerable.html) module
provides many list processing methods relying on a class's `each` method.
Ruby's Array class includes the Enumerable module.

### Modules

In Ruby, modules serve two purposes.  The first is to create name spaces. The
second is to supply common behavior to a class.

The `Math` module hides mathematical functions inside the name-space `Math` so
that short and common names don't pollute the global name-space (e.g.
`Math::PI` or `Math.cos`).

The `Enumerable` module contains code implementing list methods in terms of a
concrete class's `each` method.

### The connection

Let's diagram the delegation from Array to Enumerable and back.

## Ranges as lists

Ruby's [Range](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Range.html) class provides a
convenient way to express a sequence of integers. Range includes Enumerable so
we can treat instances as a list.

### Demo - Range

```ruby
rng = 1..10
smaller_rng = 1...10
```

### Code along - Range

Let's explore using Range as an enumerable in `bin/range_list.rb`.

### Lab - Range

In `bin/range_lab.rb`, use `reduce` to calculate the sum of all the even
numbers in a Range. All the odd numbers.  Now use `each_with_object` to do both
at once.

Hint: [Better Hash Injection using
each_with_object](http://technology.customink.com/blog/2014/10/14/better-hash-injection-using-each-with-object/)

## Hashes as lists

[Hash](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Hash.html) includes Enumerable so we can
treat it as a list.

### Demo - Hash

```ruby
hash = {'1':'one','2':'two'}
# => {:"1"=>"one", :"2"=>"two"}

hash.each {|key, value| puts "#{key} and #{value}"}
# 1 and one
# 2 and two
# => {:"1"=>"one", :"2"=>"two"}
```

### Code along - Hash

Let's explore using Hash as an enumerable in `bin/hash_list.rb`.

### Lab - Hash

In `bin/hash_lab.rb`, use `reduce` to accumulate all of the keys and values in
a Hash as Arrays. Store these keys and values in a memo Hash with the keys
`:keys` and `:values`.

So if the input hash was:

```ruby
hash = {:a => 1, :b => 2, :c => 3}
```

...your ouput should look like:

```ruby
memo = {:keys => [:a, :b, :c], :values => [1, 2, 3]}
```

Run the linter after you complete the `reduce` task. Notice a curious linter
warning? Fix all the rest, then continue. Now use `each_with_object` to do the
same.

## Using Mixins

We'll explore an important Ruby mechanism for adding behavior to a class:
mixins.

Comparable is a mixin that the Enumerable mixin relies on for several method's
implementations.

## The Comparable Module

### Lab - comparing cards

How do you compare cards?

In teams create an algorithm to determine which of two cards, if either,
is "greater" than the other.

### Code Along - Card and Deck Models

The [Comparable](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Comparable.html) module provides
common operators to a class that implements the `<=>` (spaceship) operator.
Let's add the Comparable mixin to the Card class in `lib/card.rb`.

The docs specify two things for the mixin to work with the class:

- Add the spaceship operator (`<=>`) to `Card`.
- Include the mixin in the class.

Once the cards can be compared, we can also go about adding the Enumerable
mixin to the Deck class in `lib/deck.rb`. For this the docs specify two similar
things for the custom class:

- Add the `each` method to `Deck`.
- Include the mixin in the class.

## Private methods

It's a best practice to keep the exposed API as small as necessary. Keeping
methods private by default (just like data is) is usually a safe bet. We can do
this by decorating them with the `private` method. This makes them uncallable
outside the class definition.

For example:

```ruby
class Foo
  def bar
    "baz"
  end
  private :bar

  def qux
    bar # this works
  end
end

Foo.new.bar # this does not work
```

### Code along - Stepped Range

We'll build a new range class that increments by a provided value. The key to
creating an `Enumerable` class is a correct implementation of the `each`
method.

## Tasks

Developers should run these often!

- `bin/rake nag`  (or `bundle exec rake nag`): runs code quality analysis
    tools on your code and complains.
- `bin/rake test` (or `bundle exec rake test`): runs automated tests.

## Additional Resources

- [List ADT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_%28abstract_data_type%29)
- [Ruby Lazy Enumerator](http://patshaughnessy.net/2013/4/3/ruby-2-0-works-hard-so-you-can-be-lazy)
- [Deeper Dive into Modules](http://ruby-doc.com/docs/ProgrammingRuby/html/tut_modules.html)

Two images to give you a sense of the relationships between types in Ruby.

- [Hand drawn](http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5443/10075536704_84aa13676a_o.jpg)
- [And not](http://i.stack.imgur.com/1taqB.png)

These images may diverge slightly from the actual relationships, Ruby is an
evolving language, but do give a sense of much of what goes on.

## [License](LICENSE)

1. All content is licensed under a CC­BY­NC­SA 4.0 license.
1. All software code is licensed under GNU GPLv3. For commercial use or
    alternative licensing, please contact legal@ga.co.

Commit message:

Make SteppedRange a lab instead of code along
- Turn SteppedRange code along into a lab.
- Closes #39

README.md, after:

[![General Assembly Logo](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/1a91b05b8f4d44b5bbfb83abac2b0996d8e26c92/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f6b6538555354712e706e67)](https://generalassemb.ly/education/web-development-immersive)

# Ruby Enumerable and Comparable

## Prerequisites

- [Ruby Object](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/ruby-object)

## Objectives

By the end of this, developers should be able to:

- Define “list” and give two examples of lists in Ruby.
- Diagram the flow of Enumerable methods as invoked through concrete classes.
- Give two examples of methods defined in Enumerable and available on all
  three of Range, Array, and Hash.
- Add Comparable operators to a class.
- Add Enumerable methods to a class.

## Preparation

1. Fork and clone this repository.
 [FAQ](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/meta/wiki/ForkAndClone)
1. Create a new branch, `training`, for your work.
1. Checkout to the `training` branch.
1. Install dependencies with `bundle install`.

## Introduction

A list is an abstract data type (ADT) that represents an ordered collection of
items. The list may be empty. If not empty, the list has a first item followed
by a list containing the rest of the items. This is not a rigorous definition.

Enumerable is Ruby's implementation of the `list` abstraction.

What are some types of lists?

What are some things we'd put on those lists?

## Arrays as lists

In JavaScript, the concept of list is built into Array. In Ruby, it is built
into Enumerable which is included in Ruby's
[Array](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Array.html).

The following table contains a mapping of some of the methods that potentially
touch all the elements in an Array. We've already covered most of these in
[Ruby Array Methods](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/ruby-array-methods).

| JavaScript | Ruby     |
| ---------- | ----     |
| `every`    | `all?`   |
| `filter`   | `select` |
| `forEach`  | `each`   |
| `map`      | `map`    |
| `reduce`   | `reduce` |
| `some`     | `any?`   |

But, wait. Where is the method `all?` defined? The method `reduce`? They're
from the `Enumerable` mix-in, and will be the focus of this talk. "Enumerable"
is another word for "iteratable", so we can say that each of Ruby's `Array`,
`Range`, and `Hash` types behave as something that can be iterated over.

## The Enumerable Module

Ruby's [Enumerable](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Enumerable.html) module
provides many list processing methods relying on a class's `each` method.
Ruby's Array class includes the Enumerable module.

### Modules

In Ruby, modules serve two purposes.  The first is to create name spaces. The
second is to supply common behavior to a class.

The `Math` module hides mathematical functions inside the name-space `Math` so
that short and common names don't pollute the global name-space (e.g.
`Math::PI` or `Math.cos`).

The `Enumerable` module contains code implementing list methods in terms of a
concrete class's `each` method.

### The connection

Let's diagram the delegation from Array to Enumerable and back.

## Ranges as lists

Ruby's [Range](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Range.html) class provides a
convenient way to express a sequence of integers. Range includes Enumerable so
we can treat instances as a list.

### Demo - Range

```ruby
rng = 1..10
smaller_rng = 1...10
```

### Code along - Range

Let's explore using Range as an enumerable in `bin/range_list.rb`.

### Lab - Range

In `bin/range_lab.rb`, use `reduce` to calculate the sum of all the even
numbers in a Range. All the odd numbers.  Now use `each_with_object` to do both
at once.

Hint: [Better Hash Injection using
each_with_object](http://technology.customink.com/blog/2014/10/14/better-hash-injection-using-each-with-object/)

## Hashes as lists

[Hash](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Hash.html) includes Enumerable so we can
treat it as a list.

### Demo - Hash

```ruby
hash = {'1':'one','2':'two'}
# => {:"1"=>"one", :"2"=>"two"}

hash.each {|key, value| puts "#{key} and #{value}"}
# 1 and one
# 2 and two
# => {:"1"=>"one", :"2"=>"two"}
```

### Code along - Hash

Let's explore using Hash as an enumerable in `bin/hash_list.rb`.

### Lab - Hash

In `bin/hash_lab.rb`, use `reduce` to accumulate all of the keys and values in
a Hash as Arrays. Store these keys and values in a memo Hash with the keys
`:keys` and `:values`.

So if the input hash was:

```ruby
hash = {:a => 1, :b => 2, :c => 3}
```

...your ouput should look like:

```ruby
memo = {:keys => [:a, :b, :c], :values => [1, 2, 3]}
```

Run the linter after you complete the `reduce` task. Notice a curious linter
warning? Fix all the rest, then continue. Now use `each_with_object` to do the
same.

## Using Mixins

We'll explore an important Ruby mechanism for adding behavior to a class:
mixins.

Comparable is a mixin that the Enumerable mixin relies on for several method's
implementations.

## The Comparable Module

### Lab - comparing cards

How do you compare cards?

In teams create an algorithm to determine which of two cards, if either,
is "greater" than the other.

### Code Along - Card and Deck Models

The [Comparable](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/Comparable.html) module provides
common operators to a class that implements the `<=>` (spaceship) operator.
Let's add the Comparable mixin to the Card class in `lib/card.rb`.

The docs specify two things for the mixin to work with the class:

- Add the spaceship operator (`<=>`) to `Card`.
- Include the mixin in the class.

Once the cards can be compared, we can also go about adding the Enumerable
mixin to the Deck class in `lib/deck.rb`. For this the docs specify two similar
things for the custom class:

- Add the `each` method to `Deck`.
- Include the mixin in the class.

## Private methods

It's a best practice to keep the exposed API as small as necessary. Keeping
methods private by default (just like data is) is usually a safe bet. We can do
this by decorating them with the `private` method. This makes them uncallable
outside the class definition.

For example:

```ruby
class Foo
  def bar
    "baz"
  end
  private :bar

  def qux
    bar # this works
  end
end

Foo.new.bar # this does not work
```

### Lab - Stepped Range

We'll build a new range class that increments by a provided value. The key to
creating an `Enumerable` class is a correct implementation of the `each`
method.

For this new class called `SteppedRange` you can work in the `lib/stepped_range.rb` file. The goal is to be able to create an instance of
`SteppedRange` where you pass in the number for the range to start at, the
number for the range to end at, and the number that each step should increment
by.

So if you created one like `SteppedRange.new(2, 10, 2)` it would produce a
range that contained the numbers: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10.

You can test your solution by running only the tests for this specific lab. The
command to do that is `rspec spec/stepped_range_spec.rb`.

## Tasks

Developers should run these often!

- `bin/rake nag`  (or `bundle exec rake nag`): runs code quality analysis
  tools on your code and complains.
- `bin/rake test` (or `bundle exec rake test`): runs automated tests.

## Additional Resources

- [List ADT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_%28abstract_data_type%29)
- [Ruby Lazy Enumerator](http://patshaughnessy.net/2013/4/3/ruby-2-0-works-hard-so-you-can-be-lazy)
- [Deeper Dive into Modules](http://ruby-doc.com/docs/ProgrammingRuby/html/tut_modules.html)

Two images to give you a sense of the relationships between types in Ruby.

- [Hand drawn](http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5443/10075536704_84aa13676a_o.jpg)
- [And not](http://i.stack.imgur.com/1taqB.png)

These images may diverge slightly from the actual relationships, Ruby is an
evolving language, but do give a sense of much of what goes on.

## [License](LICENSE)

1. All content is licensed under a CC­BY­NC­SA 4.0 license.
1. All software code is licensed under GNU GPLv3. For commercial use or
   alternative licensing, please contact legal@ga.co.
